The family of a Grade 9 pupil of Basopa High are demanding explanations as to what had caused his death. Wisani Maluleke (16) was allegedly shot dead by the police during a community protest at the Saselamani Police Station on 28 February. Community members from Maphophe marched to the Saselamani police station to demand that the police arrest a motorist who had allegedly shot and killed a 16-year-old boy, Adon Maluleke, the week before. The young man was apparently filling up potholes with a group of his mates from the village when the incident happened. What had triggered the shooting was not clear. Chaos erupted last Sunday (28th) when community members allegedly stormed the police station, breaking windows, and damaging state vehicles. According to a community member, who asked to remain anonymous, the crowd marched to the police station to demand that the police arrest the suspect involved in the fatal shooting. Fighting erupted between the police and community members, who threw stones at the police building, damaging windows and cars. The police apparently started to shoot at the angry protesters. The family spokesperson, Mr Thomas Maluleke, said that they were shocked by the way the young Wisani had died. He said that the family were confused and were demanding answers. “What did my younger brother do to these people that made them kill him? I wish they can be arrested, so that they can answer those questions. I want justice for my brother,” he said. “He died like a criminal or a gangster, and he was a decent and respectful young man. We just want them to get these police officers and put them through the justice system,” he said. He said the family had been robbed of a valuable member. “We need answers as to who killed him and why he was killed. Nothing is new with regard to our new democratic system whereby a police person, who is supposed to keep us safe, kills and murders and covers the murder. This is uncalled for and this cannot happen in this new democratic dispensation,” he said. The police’s spokesperson, Brig Motlafela Mojapelo, condemned the incident where the police came under attack from community members. He said that angry community members allegedly started attacking the police station with rocks and other objects. Cases of assault on police, malicious damage to property, and other crimes have been opened. Mojapelo said that the police had arrested a 48-year-old suspect in connection with the death of Adon Maluleke. The suspect, Thomas Maluleke (not directly related to the family spokesperson) is facing a charge of murder. He appeared in the Malamulele court on 4 March and he remains in custody. The case was postponed until 11 March for a formal bail application. Mojapelo said that the suspect was allegedly found in possession of an unlicensed firearm that was stolen in Gauteng in 2012. The National Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) spokesperson, Ndileka Cola, confirmed that the death of Wisani Maluleke is being investigated. “Our investigators are still in the vicinity,” she said but did not want to divulge any further information as she said the information first needed to be verified. 