An urgent interdict was granted on Sunday in the Thohoyandou High Court that forces the Shirilele High School in Mavambe to re-enrol 43 of the matriculants of 2020 who had failed the year-end exams. The drama started soon after last year’s matric class had received their results. One of the learners, who asked to remain anonymous, said that the matriculants had gone to the school on 23 January to fetch their results. The principal then allegedly told some of the learners who had failed that the school would not be able to register them as full-time candidates for the 2021 academic year. When the parents were informed of this decision, it caused a lot of uncertainty and unhappiness. A group of parents then set up a meeting with the principal. During this meeting on 26 February, the parents were allegedly told that a circular had been issued by the Department of Education’s Malamulele Circuit that directed principals not to register last year’s matriculants as full-time learners. The parents then approached the Ward councillor, Dorris Mabasa, asking her to intervene and to set up a meeting with the school governing body. This meeting was scheduled for 1 March, but the parents were not allowed to be present. When the councillor came out, she informed the parents that the principal had said he needed some time to rethink his decision and that he would respond in due course. The parents then opted to obtain the services of Mvundlela & Associates Attorneys Inc, asking them to try and obtain an urgent interdict to force the school to re-enrol the learners. The case served before acting Deputy Judge President Frans Kgomo on Sunday and the application was heard unopposed (ex parte).  Judge Kgomo granted the interdict, with an effective date of Monday, 8 March. The interim order is applicable until 27 May, by which date the opposing parties must supply reasons as to why it should not become a permanent measure. In a circular issued by the Limpopo Department of Education on Monday (8th) it states that the department had received many complaints from parents whose children had failed Grade12. The parents complained that the learners had been refused permission to register again for Grade 12. The circular instructs all principals of public schools to assist learners who did not do well in last year’s Grade 12 examinations and allow them to repeat the year in order to improve their results. 