Naledzani Luvhimbi, a disabled resident from Shayandima Zone 10, and members of her family have been living in unbearable conditions in a tent since last year. Luvhimbi’s RDP house was destroyed by heavy rain last year and she has had to scramble around for a decent roof over her head. She has endured the worst form of poverty, as she is unemployed and surviving only on her meagre disability grant. Last year, the Vhembe municipality donated a tent, which Luvhimbi shares with her seven family members. Frustrated and powerless, she says she is praying for a helping hand to save her from her poor living conditions. During the day, nothing seems out of the ordinary, but come evening, the family crams into the tent like sardines. The tiny shelter would not be able to accommodate a single extra person. “The tent is not a safe environment for anyone to live in,” she said. “I have nothing to show and I am unemployed,” said an indignant Luvhimbi. “It is very embarrassing to share a tent with my husband and grown-up children. We do not have privacy here. Poverty has stripped us of our dignity, and we feel like nothing in this community.” She is now appealing to any Good Samaritan for help with shelter for herself and her children. “I do not want luxury. I just need shelter. If only I can get two rooms, even if they are made from mud bricks, I will be the happiest person on earth,” she said, with pain written all over her face. “We know about her plight and we are still doing our best to see to it that she gets shelter for herself and her family. This is a sad state of affairs and, coupled with the poverty engulfing communities, only government or a Good Samaritan’s intervention will help,” said community member Livhuwani Nethononda. Luvhimbi said she would accept any form of assistance. Those who would like to open their hearts and help the family can do so by phoning her on Tel 082 400 8113. Spokesperson for the Thulamela Municipality Nndwamato Tshiila advised Luvhimbi to go to the ward councillor, who will assess the situation and report to the municipality. 