After hosting Cape Town City at the Thohoyandou Stadium on Wednesday evening, Black Leopards are gearing up for another tough DStv Premiership League match this weekend. They will entertain Chippa United at the same venue tomorrow afternoon (Saturday). Chippa, or the Chili Boys as they are affectionately called, will have to double their effort if they are serious about going back to Port Elizabeth with a point in hand. Mr Dylan Kerr, the head coach for Black Leopards, has reason to believe that he has finally found a winning combination. This after Lidoda duvha rose to the occasion and beat Orlando Pirates 2-0 at the Thohoyandou Stadium last Sunday. Asked about their level of readiness for the game, Mr Kerr said that the players were ready to give their all tomorrow to restore the team’s lost pride. He revealed that all his players will be available for selection tomorrow. Chippa United, on the other hand, are in a winning mode of late. They beat TS Galaxy 1-0 at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium last Saturday as a way to welcome the team’s new head coach, Mr Daniel Malesela. Chippa United beefed up their striking force by acquiring the services of the Liberian international, Anthony Laffor, as well as Ayabulela Konqobe this week. A combination of the Leopards’ forwards, Ovidy Karuru, Lifa Hlongwane and their Lesotho international, Tumelo Khutlang, is expected to keep United’s defenders running for cover from the onset to the end. Black Leopards will host Mamelodi Sundowns at the same venue next Wednesday, 27 January. Also tomorrow, Mamelodi Sundowns will take on Moroka Swallows at the Lucas Moripe Stadium outside Pretoria. Kaizer Chiefs will fly to Cape Town where they will play against Stellenbosch FC at the Cape Town Stadium. Baroka, and Amazulu will battle it out for league points at the Peter Mokaba Stadium in Polokwane. Maritzburg United will host Orlando Pirates at the Harry Gwala Stadium in Pietermaritzburg. Sunday’s fixtures are: TTM vs Supersport United and Cape Town City vs Golden Arrows. 