Ms Livhalani Sinyosi, the principal of Dzata Secondary School in Nzhelele’s East Circuit, has been named as the winner of the African Union (AU) Continental Teacher’s Prize for 2020. The winners were announced during a virtual ceremony held under the theme: Schools as development hubs to empower teachers after Covid-19 on Monday, 21 December. Limpopo MEC for education Ms Polly Boshileo was thrilled when Sinyosi was announced as winner of the prestigious competition. “It is exciting to end the year on such a high note,” said Boshielo. “There are not enough words to express how proud we are of the award given to one of our own. Such enormous recognition does not come easy and should be appreciated as testament of selfless determination and excellence that we are privileged to see in our teachers.” The AU Teacher’s Prize was established as a means of demonstrating respect for teachers and the teaching profession by encouraging and celebrating committed teachers on the continent. The prize shines a spotlight on great teachers and facilitates the sharing of their remarkable stories with the world. Sinyosi was the 2019 district and provincial winner of the National Teacher’s Award in Secondary School Leadership and ended up in the third position at national level. This led to her being nominated for the AU Teacher’s Prize by the Department of Basic Education. She received the award for having demonstrated qualities at engaging in quality teaching, helping students to achieve long-term career goals by organising engagements with relevant agencies, engaging in activities and networks that enhance the social and cultural value of learning, and encouraging desirable behaviour among students through positive feedback. Sinyosi has been in the education sector for 25 years, where she has worked as a teacher, departmental head, deputy principal and now principal. She is the mother of four and holds a Master of Education degree in curriculum studies and is currently a PhD student at the University of South Africa (Unisa). “I thank God for this prestigious award bestowed on me. It was not an easy journey, as I was competing with different countries, but because of the grace of God, South Africa won,” said Ms Sinyosi. Sinyosi told the Limpopo Mirror that the victory was not hers alone, but the victory of South Africa, and that all South Africans should be proud, especially the Limpopo Province. 